Great in the last lectures we learn something crucial something we will use a lot in our demo EP and
this course and probably in any app how to pass data from a component down to another component which
was implemented there.
Now about the other direction what if we have a component and something changes in there and we want
to inform our parent component Sodhi component which implements the average component.
For example here an app component we're implementing app cockpit.
And in this child component in app cockpit something can change because here we got two buttons and
when we click the buttons we want to do something.
And right now the code which would normally get executed was simply commented out.
So here we want to inform our parent component the app component.
In this case that a news server or a new blueprint was created.
So in our app component we maybe still want to implement these two methods.
So that simply add them here.
However I will adjust the names and say on server added because these methods were kind of only be executed
after this button has been placed so not once the button is clicked but thereafter once we really already
are done creating the server so to say so on server added and on blueprint added sounds like more appropriate
names here in the app component.
Then however we can comment out this code and still create a news server or a new blueprint.
However this will not work as expected here because we're referencing news server name and user recanted
which are not available in the app component.
But that is exactly information we kind of want to pass from the cockpit to the component because the
Yapp component is the central place in our app for now which manages this array of service.
So how can we emit an event our own event.
How can we inform our app component.
It would be great if it would look something like this on the app cockpit.
So the app component HVM a file where we implement app cockpit.
It would be great if we could listen to server create it any name you like but that would be a fitting
name for the kind of event we want to listen to.
Of course this event doesn't exist by default.
So just like we listen to click now we want to listen to some event like this or recreate it and once
a server was created we execute some code.
So just like in any other built in event like click here on the rights up to equal time would we need
quotation marks.
We want to call on server add at the method we've prepared for this.
And we even expect to get some data with Dolorosa an event.
Does this how you could catch this data that could be some object which gives us the required information
about that server like the name and the content.
So on server added Now here we would expect to get event data.
Or let's say we would actually expect to get the server data and that could be of type let's say a javascript
object which has a name field with a string.
Or let's be more explicit.
Let's have it its name it server name which is of type string and server content which is of type string.
So that would be the type of object we expect to get in this method.
And with that we could use it here and use server data server name to assign it for as a name for our
newly created server the one we push onto our every year.
And the same of course down here for the content.
So that is how it should work.
We get this data in on server added and we call on server and once our casting event occurs on the cockpit
component and this event even should give us the state and we expect to get and we catch it with Dollar
Sign event and obviously we can also replicate these for the let's say blueprint
created event here we would execute on blueprint added.
And of course you could also kind of merge these two methods.
I keep them separate to be really clear about what's happening here and there again.
We also expect to get our well blueprint data in this case.
So blueprint data maybe and there we also would receive the information we require like the server name.
And then of course also the content this is how it should work.
Now in the cockpit component we actually need to embed our own U-bend.
We are waiting for events named server created and blueprint created maybe with a lowercase p.
So in the cockpit component I kind of want to create two new properties here properties that's important
server created and loop and create it.
Now before we placed any input in front of them to mark them as properties you can set from outside.
Now we want to do the opposite.
We want to make sure that both properties kind of are events we can emit and to make them events.
We first of all have to assign a new value New Event emitter and event emitter needs to be imported
from an angle of course.
So you should at this import here at the top even dimeter is a generic type which is indicated in typescript
by using these smaller denigrated and sign and image when you simply define the type of event data you're
going to emit.
And here.
Well we know this would just be the data we expect that the component.
So this will be an object with a server name and server content.
So we can pass this in between the smaller and greater than signs an important add parentheses and the
end to call the constructor of event emitter and create a new event emitter object which is now stored
in server created.
I'll do the same for blueprint created.
Now we get to event emitters and that's the first step event emitter is an object in the angular FREYBERG
which allows you to emit your own events.
What we can do with that is in on Ed's server we can now call server created.
And here we can call the emit method.
This will that will like the name Bligh's emit a new event of this type so of the server is created
we're using Does event emitter well and here we simply want to create the object or pass the object.
We kind of said we would pass here an object where we have a server name which of course is our news
server name so what ever we say here and then a server content with de-value of news server content
as a value.
And I can split this over two lines to make it a bit easier to read.
So this is what we emit and on X server and that's do the same for on a blueprint here however of course
we use blueprint to create a second event.
We set up there.
So with that we're emitting our own events pretty awesome.
We're passing the data.
One piece is missing though.
Remember we added an input to make a property line double from outside.
Now we need to add something to a server created and blueprint created to make it kind of listen Lebel
from outside.
That's something as a numbered decorator and it's not input because we're not getting something passed
into this component.
It's add output with parentheses because we're passing something out of the component we're passing
our own U-bend out of the component.
And the same for blueprint to create it.
Make sure to import outpoured from.
Angular core with this in place.
Now if we save this and have a look at our application if we create a new server some task content and
we click add server.
You see it gets displayed down there so it successfully amidst this event.
Let's check the same for the blueprint that looks pretty good too.
So with that we get our app working again.
But now split up into several components which can communicate with each other and that is a key building
block because component communication is so important.